Document repos.csv publishing per LST store and deprecate poll discovery (#915)
moderneinc/moderne-docs: docs/administrator-documentation/moderne-platform/how-to-guides/connector-configuration/configure-a-connector-with-maven-repository-access.md

:::

## Publish your repos.csv alongside your LSTs

The recommended setup keeps three things in the same Maven repository:

* The LST artifacts, uploaded by `mod publish`.
* Your input `repos.csv` (the repository list and organizational hierarchy that drives [mass ingest](../mass-ingest.md)), uploaded by you.
* A central `repos-lock.csv`, maintained automatically by `mod publish`.

Because Maven repositories require every artifact to live at a Maven coordinate (`groupId/artifactId/version`), these CSVs live at synthetic Maven coordinates rather than at the repository root. When the LST store is configured with `mod config lsts artifacts maven add`, the well-known locations under the repository URL are:

| File             | Path within the repository                                              |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `repos.csv`      | `io/moderne/organization/sources/repos/1.0.0/repos-1.0.0.csv`           |
| `repos-lock.csv` | `io/moderne/organization/sources/repos-lock/1.0.0/repos-lock-1.0.0.csv` |

> Each time `mod publish` runs, it looks for the input `repos.csv` at its well-known location. When present, it merges that input with the previous `repos-lock.csv` and the results of the current run, then writes the merged file back. This keeps the central `repos-lock.csv` complete and correctly organized even when ingestion is split across machines or a run only covers a subset of repositories. Without the input `repos.csv` in place, the lock file only accumulates whatever happened to be published, and repositories that failed to build (or have not built yet) are missing from it.

Reviewer: "Each time `mod publish` runs" overstates this — the merge is guarded and skipped entirely when nothing was published.

In `Publish.java#postVisitOrganization`, the call to `updateCentralEffectiveReposCsv` is wrapped in `if (published.get() != 0)` plus `artifacts.getRepository() != null && task.getOrganization().equals(task.getRoot())`. The counter increments only in the success branch, so every skip path leaves it at zero. `cli-releases.md:302` corroborates under CLI / DX v4.3.0: "Skip uploading `repos-lock.csv` if no LSTs were published via `mod publish`".

That matters here because the paragraph sells the merge as the mechanism that captures repos "that failed to build (or have not built yet)" — but the guard fires exactly when nothing published. Concretely: an admin adds rows to `repos.csv`, the new repos all fail to build, nothing else changed, and the promised rows never reach the central lock file. Given `mass-ingest.md:15` prescribes running "on a schedule (typically once per day)", the zero-publish run is the normal steady state.

Suggest "Whenever a `mod publish` run publishes at least one LST, it looks for the input `repos.csv` at its well-known location." Same wording at `configure-a-connector-with-artifactory-access.md:35`, `configure-a-connector-with-s3-access.md:29`, and `repos-lock-csv.md:76`.

Because the lock file is rewritten at the same coordinate on every run (and you will re-upload `repos.csv` at the same coordinate whenever your repository list changes), the Maven repository must allow republishing an existing coordinate. In Nexus, this is the **Deployment policy** setting on the hosted repository, which must be set to `Allow redeploy` (see the Nexus warning under [Publishing LST artifacts](#publishing-lst-artifacts)). Other Maven repository managers have equivalent release-immutability settings that must be relaxed for this repository.

Upload the input file to its well-known location. For example, with Nexus:

```bash
curl -u "$NEXUS_USER:$NEXUS_PASSWORD" -T repos.csv \
  "https://nexus.example.com/repository/moderne-ingest/io/moderne/organization/sources/repos/1.0.0/repos-1.0.0.csv"
```

`mod publish` then maintains the lock file at `https://nexus.example.com/repository/moderne-ingest/io/moderne/organization/sources/repos-lock/1.0.0/repos-lock-1.0.0.csv`. Point the Connector's organization source at that URL:

```bash

> -e MODERNE_ORGANIZATION_SOURCES_HTTP_0_URI=https://nexus.example.com/repository/moderne-ingest/io/moderne/organization/sources/repos-lock/1.0.0/repos-lock-1.0.0.csv \

Reviewer: This fence isn't runnable as shown — it's a lone `-e` fragment ending in a dangling `\` with no `docker run` prefix, so copy-pasting drops the reader at a `>` continuation prompt.

These two (here and `configure-a-connector-with-artifactory-access.md:47`) are the only bash fences in `docs/` whose first line starts with `-e `. Everywhere else — `connector-config.md:400`, `connector-variables.md`, and the S3 guide's own examples — the env vars sit inside a `docker run \` + `# ... Existing variables` block wrapped in `<Tabs groupId="agent-type">` with a matching Executable JAR tab. Readers on the JAR deployment get no `--moderne.organization.sources.http[0].uri=...` equivalent at all.

```

:::info
These synthetic coordinates only apply to LST stores configured as Maven repositories (`mod config lsts artifacts maven`). Artifactory, S3, and Azure Blob Storage stores place `repos.csv` and `repos-lock.csv` at the root of the store instead; see the [Artifactory](./configure-a-connector-with-artifactory-access.md#publish-your-reposcsv-alongside-your-lsts) and [S3](./configure-a-connector-with-s3-access.md#publish-your-reposcsv-alongside-your-lsts) guides.
:::

## Publishing LST artifacts

:::warning[Deprecated]
The Maven Indexer setup below is only required for the deprecated `POLLING` discovery mode. If your Connector reads a `repos-lock.csv` with `publishUri` values (`LOCK` mode), you do not need to configure the indexer.

> :::

Reviewer: This banner makes the section below look skippable, but the only place the still-mandatory Nexus repository settings are documented is inside it — the Permissive + `Allow redeploy` warning at lines 109-115, nested under `### Configure the Maven Indexer` and inside the non-default `<TabItem value="nexus-repository">` (the default tab is `artifactory`).

Line 60 of this same PR routes readers straight there: "see the Nexus warning under [Publishing LST artifacts](#publishing-lst-artifacts)". So a LOCK-mode Nexus admin clicks the anchor, lands on line 79, reads "you do not need to configure the indexer", stops, and never opens the Nexus tab — leaving the hosted repo at the default `Disable redeploy` and hitting the exact HTTP 400 this PR is trying to prevent.

Two options: scope the banner to `### Configure the Maven Indexer` (line 85) instead of the parent section, or hoist the Nexus repository-settings warning up above the banner into its own always-applicable block. The second is probably better since those settings apply in both modes.

### Configure the Maven Indexer

> In order to publish LST artifacts, the artifact registry must be regularly updated with an index in the [Maven Indexer](https://maven.apache.org/maven-indexer/) format. The frequency with which the index is updated is an approximation of the time it will take for an LST that is published to your artifact repository to show up in Moderne. You will need to decide where the border is between faster publishing and the load required on your Artifactory instance.

Reviewer: This paragraph directly contradicts the banner five lines above: "the artifact registry **must** be regularly updated with an index". The framing that follows ("an approximation of the time it will take for an LST ... to show up in Moderne") is also only true in `POLLING` mode.

Worth a lead-in like "If you are running in the deprecated `POLLING` mode, the artifact registry must be..." so the two blocks agree.

Related, just outside this hunk: line 95 still says using AQL is "_highly_ recommended" and tells readers to follow the Artifactory guide instead — which this PR now deprecates at the top of that guide. That's three admonitions on one rendered page giving inconsistent advice.

<TabItem value="nexus-repository" label="Nexus Repository">

:::warning
If you are using Nexus 3 for LST storage with [mass ingest](../mass-ingest.md), the repository **must** be created as a **maven2 (hosted)** repository with **layout policy set to Permissive** and **deployment policy set to Allow redeploy**.

> Mass ingest uploads build logs alongside LSTs using paths that do not follow Maven coordinate structure, and Nexus will reject these uploads with HTTP 400 if the layout policy is set to Strict. Mass ingest also republishes existing coordinates: the central `repos-lock.csv` is rewritten at the same coordinate on every run, and LSTs are republished at the same coordinate when a repository is rebuilt at an unchanged version. Nexus rejects these updates with HTTP 400 if the deployment policy is set to `Disable redeploy` (the default for hosted release repositories).

Reviewer: `mod publish` doesn't republish LSTs at an existing coordinate, so this half of the justification isn't right.

In `Publish.java`, Maven stores route to `publishToHttp`, which calls `isPublished(publishUrl, httpSender)` (HTTP HEAD, true on 200) and only PUTs when `!alreadyPublished` — otherwise it prints `"Skipped because the latest LST was already published at %s"`. The coordinate is version-only (`groupId/artifactId/version/artifactId-version-ast.jar`, no commit component), so "rebuilt at an unchanged version" is precisely the case that always skips. There's no `--force` either; `mod publish` exposes only `--trace-tag`.

The `Allow redeploy` requirement is still correct — `uploadFileToHttp` PUTs `repos-lock.csv` unconditionally with no existence check — so it just needs to rest on the lock file alone. This also lets us drop the "every run" overstatement (see the `published.get() != 0` guard noted on line 58).

```suggestion
Mass ingest uploads build logs alongside LSTs using paths that do not follow Maven coordinate structure, and Nexus will reject these uploads with HTTP 400 if the layout policy is set to Strict. Mass ingest also republishes existing coordinates: the central `repos-lock.csv` is rewritten at the same coordinate every time a run publishes at least one LST. Nexus rejects these updates with HTTP 400 if the deployment policy is set to `Disable redeploy` (the default for hosted release repositories).
```

Same sentence needs the same edit in `configure-an-agent-with-maven-repository-access.md:66`.
